ITALIAN ITEMS

1. Agnolotti Pasta

1
Roll out the pasta into sheets of 2mm thickness and around 30cm in length
image
2
Pipe ½ tsp dots of your filling in 3cm intervals along the pasta. Ideally you should fit 5 per pasta sheet
image
3
Carefully fold over the pasta and push down to seal, making a tube. Trim away any excess pasta
image
4
Use your fingers to pinch between the filling to seal and create pockets
image
5
Fold the pasta forwards to make a flap then use a pasta wheel for a fluted effect or a sharp knife to separate each pocket
image
6
To cook the agnolotti, bring a large pan of lightly salted water to the boil and cook for 2–3 minutes before draining and tossing in olive oil



2. Riso tonnato

Step 1
Place broth in a medium saucepan; bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat so the broth remains steaming, but is not simmering.

step 2
Heat oil in a Dutch oven over medium-low heat. Add onion and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Add garlic and cook, stirring, until the onion is very soft and translucent, about 2 minutes. Add rice and salt and stir to coat.

 Step 3
Stir 1/2 cup of the hot broth and a generous splash of wine into the rice; reduce heat to a gentle simmer and cook, stirring constantly, until the liquid has been absorbed. Add more broth, 1/2 cup at a time along with some wine, stirring after each addition until most of the liquid has been absorbed. After about 10 minutes, stir in tomato paste. Continue to cook, adding broth and wine and stirring after each addition until most of the liquid is absorbed; the risotto is done when you've used all the broth and wine and the rice is creamy and just tender, 20 to 30 minutes more.

 Step 4
Remove the risotto from the heat; stir in 3/4 cup cheese and pepper. Serve sprinkled with the remaining 1/4 cup cheese.


3.  Focaccia

1 Knead the flour, water, salt, crumbled yeast, potato starch and mixed herbs using an electric mixer for 4 minutes at the lowest speed, then 6 minutes at medium speed. The dough should pull away from the side of the bowl.

2 Continue to knead at the lowest speed while adding the olive oil in a thin stream until it is all completely incorporated.

3 Transfer the dough to a round-bottomed bowl. Cover with a clean tea towel and leave to undergo pointage (the first rise) for 30 minutes in a warm place (25–28C).


4 Make a rabat (ie fold the dough back on itself to kick-start fermentation). Return to the bowl, cover with the tea towel and leave to undergo pointage for a further 30 minutes in a warm place (25–28C).

5 Divide the dough into two 200g pieces using a dough cutter. Pre-shape each piece into a ball, pulling tight.

6 Place the dough pieces on a sheet of baking paper, cover with the tea towel and leave to rest for 30 minutes in a warm place (25–28C).

7 Using a rolling pin, roll each dough piece into a 20cm × 15cm rectangle about 2cm thick.

8 Cover with the tea towel. Leave to prove for about 1 hour in a warm place (25–28C).

9 Place a baking sheet and a heatproof bowl filled with water in the oven and preheat to 260C (conventional oven). Remove the warmed baking sheet from the oven and slide the baking paper with the bread onto it. Make about 30 holes in the dough with your fingers without tearing the bottom, and fill them with olive oil using a pastry brush.

10 Spray the bottom of the oven with water and bake the bread for 10 minutes (keeping the bowl in the oven).


GUJARATI ITEMS

1.KHAMAN

1. ieve gram flour into a bowl or large pan. This helps remove any hard bits. Now make a paste by adding in warm water slowly. Keep whisking till it is a smooth, slightly runny batter.

2. Now add the sugar, salt, turmeric powder, ginger-chilly paste and lemon juice and mix well. Keep aside for about 15 minutes.

3. Before mixing in the fruit salt, keep a greased shallow plate or container ready. Just use oil to grease it. I used my pressure cooker container. Now take about 2-3 inches water in your cooker/steaming container and bring it to a rolling boil. Reduce the heat and now get ready to add the fruit salt.

4. This is the only time that the batter will fluff up. Don’t leave it around waiting. Immediately pour the batter into the greased pan. Tap the container gently to level the batter and then put it in the steamer for steaming.

5. Let it steam for about 20 minutes. Check by inserting a knife in the centre to make sure it is cooked. If the knife comes out clean, your dhokla is cooked.

6. Take it out. Let it cool down a bit and scrape the sides with a knife which will help loosen the dhokla. Now release it on another plate.

7. Meanwhile, prepare the seasoning. Heat oil in a tadka (seasoning) pan. Put in the mustard seeds. Allow them to sputter. Now add the asafoetida, curry leaves and green chillies and cook for a minute. Switch off the gas and then add 3 tbsp.of water along with 2 tbsp. sugar to the seasoning prepared.
Yo/ur spongy, moist dhokla is now ready to eat. Serve it hot with chutney. It is filling and delicious. Try it and let me know.

2.FAFDA

Recipe Index » Breakfasts & Snacks » Fafda Recipe
Fafda Recipe
October 26, 2017 By Kanan / 4 Comments

 JUMP TO RECIPE
4 from 1 vote
Fafda Recipe – a popular Gujarati snack or breakfast item made from besan. A popular combination is fafda jalebi that you will find in any farsan shop in Gujarat. People prefers to eat them warm (garama garam) as a breakfast.

Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
On dussehra festival, you will see a long lines at farsan shop to buy garama garam fafda and jalebi.

Watch our videos:
 Veg Puff Recipe (Vegetable Puff - Indian Bakery style)
Play Video
These are just crisp yet soft and melt in your mouth as your eat. They are not crispy like other snack (chakli, namak pare, sev, tikha gathiya).

The store bought ones are really really long in size (around 1 foot to 1.5 feet). But since we are making it at home and we do not have practice, skill and that big kadai for frying, the size will be small (around 6 inch). But the taste will be exact same.

The procedure looks little intimidating, but trust me it is very easy to make. While shaping and removing from the board, first couple may not get right. But third one will sure get right. Trust me and try it.

There are many varieties of gathiya and this is one of them hence the name fafda gathiya.

To enjoy the best taste, it should be eaten with papaya sambharo, kadhi chutney (aka fafda chutney) and fried green chili.

In Gujarati cuisine, besan is widely used. Check out more snacks made with besan
Khandvi // Khaman // Methi muthia // Methi gota

How To Make Fafda Recipe (Step By Step Photos):
or Jump to Recipe

1) Take besan in a bowl. Add salt, crushed peppercorns, ajwain, baking soda and hing in that. NOTE: Crush the peppercorns coarsely, not powdered. Crush the ajwain between your palm before adding to release its flavor more.

2) Mix well.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
3) Now add little water at a time

4) and knead into a medium soft dough (Not too soft, not too tight). Because of the besan, this dough will be really sticky, so at this point wash your hands and proceed.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
5) Now drizzle oil on the dough.

6) Also apply oil on you palm and start kneading the dough to make it smooth. Knead it for good 7-8 minutes and you will see the difference. Now cover and let it rest for 15-20 minutes.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
7) After the resting time, divide the dough into 15-17 equal portions. Make them into smooth oval shaped balls.

8) Now Heat the oil in a pan for deep frying on medium heat. While that is getting hot, take one dough ball, put on the board. NOTE: You need to use the wooden board. Since my rolling board is wooden, I used that. You can use wooden chopping board.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
9) Now press the back end slightly make it flat.

10) Using the end of your palm stretch the dough in forward direction. It should be around 6 inch long. Don’t give too much pressure otherwise it will stick your palm and becomes very thin. We are looking for medium thick strips.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
11) Now using the sharp long knife we will remove it from the board. Start with the end that is near to you.

12) Go straight without stopping and do not damage the shape. You may need to hold the board with other end so it does not wobble.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
13) Now you can lift it very easily. Similarly prepared 2-3 more.

14) Once the oil is hot, add them into the hot oil and fry. Meantime shape few more fafda.
Fafda Recipe (How to make Gujarati Fafda Gathiya Recipe)
15) As it gets crisp and cooked from one side, you need to flip them and fry other side. NOTE: not like other fried food, we are not looking for golden brown color. It has to just crisp. So keep an eye on them, do not let them get even a little golden brown color.

16) Once ready, remove it using slotted spatula and keep on paper towel lined plate. Repeat same process till done


3. UNDHIYU

1. Take all vegetables required to make the undhiyu.

2. Peel the potatoes and remove stems from brinjal. Make a criss-cross cut on brinjal and potato from the topside until 3/4th length. Make sure not to separate the segments. Stuff the veggies with prepared masala (as shown in the photo).

3. Heat 1/2 cup oil in a 3-liter or 5-liter steel/aluminum pressure cooker over medium flame. Add a pinch of asafoetida and sauté for 10-seconds. Add surti papadi, valor papdi, tuvar lilva, green peas, yam and salt. Mix well and cook for 2-3 minutes.

4. Add 1-teaspoon red chilli powder, 1/3 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/2 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder and 1/4 teaspoon garam masala powder.

5. Mix well and cook for 3 minutes.

6. Add stuffed brinjal and potato. Sprinkle some salt over it.

7. Add 1½ cups water. Add fried dhokli methi muthiya over it.

8. Close the lid and cook over medium flame for 3 whistles. Turn off the flame. Open the lid after pressure releases naturally (10-15 minutes).

9.Gently mix the curry with a spatula. Do not over mix as the veggies and muthiya may break. Garnish with fresh coriander leaves and serve hot with poori and shrikhand in lunch.


CHINESE

1. CHOW MEIN

1. Take water in a pan, add salt followed by olive oil and bring to boil.Vegetable Chowmein
2.Add noodles and cook 'bite like' -- just blanch if fresh and cook longer if dry.Vegetable Chowmein
3.Drain immediately and cool under running water till noodles are thoroughly cooled.
4.Work 1 tablespoon of the oil into the noodles and leave in the colander till required.Vegetable Chowmein
5.Keep aside a small bowl of green chilli dipped in vinegar for garnishing.Vegetable Chowmein
6.Now, heat some oil in a heavy bottom pan and stir- fry garlic, ginger garlic paste and onions over high heat till onions are golden brown..Vegetable Chowmein
7.Add celery and mushrooms followed by red and green capsicum along with carrot. Stir well.Vegetable Chowmein
8.Now add salt, black pepper powder, tomato sauce, chilli sauce, soy sauce and vinegar to veggie mixture. Mix well.Vegetable Chowmein
9.Add the noodles to this and stir well till it is thoroughly mixed.Vegetable Chowmein
10.Garnish with red capsicum and pour the prepared green-chilli vinegar mix on top.Vegetable Chowmein
11.Serve hot.

2.DUMPLINGS

1
Combine flour, salt and baking powder. Add oil and water and mix until smooth. Add a bit more water until dumplings are soft and not at all dry.
2
Bring broth to a boil and add dumplings by spoonful. Reduce heat and cook dumplings 4-5 minutes. (Do in batches if you are using a small pan.)
3
Serve dumplings in broth garnished with chopped parsley or chives as desired.

3.SPICY TOFU
Step 1
Heat peanut oil in a wok or large frying pan over medium-high heat. Toss the tofu into the oil, and cook until browned on all sides. Once browned, toss in onion, bell pepper, chile pepper, and garlic; cook until just tender, about 5 minutes.

 Step 2
In a small bowl, whisk together the hot water, vinegar, soy sauce, brown sugar, cornstarch, and red pepper flakes. Pour over tofu and vegetables, toss to coat, and simmer 3 to 5 minutes, or until sauce thickens slightly.


SOUTH INDIAN

1. DHOSA
Prepare Dosa Batter:Soak rice and urad dal in separate bowls for 4-6 hours. Strain.
Process rice and urad dal mixture in commercial grinder or food processor. While grinding, add water a cup at a time until it reaches the consistency of pancake batter.
Salt to taste.
Cover mixture and let sit overnight. Do not refrigerate; it needs to ferment.
Prepare Masala Dosa Filling: Add oil or ghee to a skillet.
Add mustard seeds and chana dal.
Shake mixture over the flame until golden brown.
Add curry leaves (whole leaf), green chiles, and onions.
Sprinkle turmeric powder and salt (for taste). Stir.
Break up boiled potato into small chunks and add them to your mixture. Add water and stir.
Prepare Masala Dosa: Pour refrigerated dosa mixture into a small bowl with a flat bottom.
Pour batter into a greased skillet.
Immediately, starting from the center, begin forming a circular shape with the batter using the flat-bottomed dish.
Brush on ghee (or regular butter) to frying dosa.
Place filling near the center of the dosa.
Lightly lift the edges of the dosa.
Begin rolling from the edge of the dosa as you would a wrap.
Remove dosa from hot top or skillet.
Masala Dosa is typically served with coconut, cilantro and tomato chutney as well as sambar

2.PESARATTU

Step 1
This Andhra style dosa has a unique taste and can be prepared at home without putting in much efforts. Soak rice and moong together for around 3-4 hours. If you are using whole moong, soak for at least 6-7 hours because whole moong takes a while to soak completely.


Step 2
When the dal is soaked, grind it to a thick paste along with chopped ginger and green chillies. Do not make the batter too thin.


Step 3
The thicker the batter is, the more tasty is the attu (dosa) that you can relish. Add little salt as per your liking.


Step 4
Pre-heat the dosa tawa, once it is hot enough smear oil on to it and spread it evenly.


Step 5
Take a katori and spread the rice and dal batter evenly on the dosa tawa starting from the centre.


Step 6
Apply a teaspoon of oil around the attu and wait till the edges turn golden yellow.


Step 7
Flip the attu to the other side and let it cook for a while, not more than a minute. Transfer the attu to a plate.

Step 8
Have it along with upma or coconut chutney. It also goes very well with tomato ketchup


3.PUTTU

1. Take 1 cup puttu flour in a mixing bowl or a pan.

puttu flour to make Kerala puttu recipe
2. Add ⅓ teaspoon salt or as required.

3. Mix very well.

4. now sprinkle ⅓ cup water all over. The amount of water required will depend on the quality of rice flour. So you can add accordingly.

5. Begin to mix the rice flour with the water with your fingertips.

6. Mix very well.

7. To get soft puttu, the amount of rice flour to water ratio is important. To check this gently press a small portion of the flour between your palms. It should form a lump. When you press this flour lump more, then it breaks and crumbles. This should be the texture of the flour.

8. Break all the tiny lumps in the flour with your fingertips. You can even grind this rice flour mixture in a grinder to break lumps. But grind in small batches and use the pulse option of mixer-grinder.

9. Now pour 2 to 3 cups water in the base vessel of the puttu kudam.

10. Keep on stove top and let it get heated.

Steaming Puttu
11. Meanwhile first place the perforated disc inside the cylindrical vessel. Then add 2 to 3 tablespoons fresh coconut in the cylindrical vessel of the puttu kudam and spread evenly.

12. Then gently add the puttu flour till it reaches half of the cylindrical vessel.

13. Then again layer with 2 to 3 tablespoons of grated coconut and spread evenly.

14. Then add the puttu flour again.

15. Cover the top portion with 2 to 3 tablespoons of grated coconut and spread evenly. Cover the top with the lid.

16. Place the cylindrical portion on top of the base vessel in which the water must have come to a boil.

17. Steam puttu on medium flame till you see steam releasing from the top vent of the cylindrical vessel. Then switch off the flame. It took me about 9 minutes as I have used a large puttu maker. If using a medium sized puttu maker or regular puttu maker, the time will be about 5 to 6 minutes.

18. Remove the cylindrical part from the base vessel and allow the puttu inside to cool for 3 to 4 minutes.

19. Then using a wooden skewer or the stick that accompanied the puttu kudam, remove the steamed puttu.

20. Serve puttu hot or warm with kadala curry or veg stew or potato stew. It will also go well with South Indian chana masala. Also serve some bananas and pappadums by side.